e
I know I
know good morning good
morning all right so we have the opening
bell here we're below the new day
opening gap of August
20th be
cool highs right here so I'm watching
that as a draw
[Music]
regular trading hours you can see here's
our boing range
[Music]
Gap right
there that's not the best C choice
though is
it let's do
this so
[Music]
previous session
settlement and the opening on this
C there's your opening range Gap coming
in and sending our niece off to college
and you probably hear my air conditioner
which I cranked
up and now I'm sitting underneath that
vent so it's going to be a little loud
that's the noise you're hearing so just
put up with it for a minute or two until
I get my office cooled down
I'm looking at the uh is a 15sec
chart we we have a small little Gap
right there but that Wick kind to
encouragement of that it stopped it so
that's all it technically needs to send
this up into that new doing Gap again
but it's still early I don't want to try
to jump ahead and
anticipate everything being
just straight up it can but for sake of
reading price action for the first few
minutes it's important for Caleb to just
know that it's not necessary for you to
know right away what it's going to
do okay so opening range
Gap has been
priced
in there you go you see that
there and I I'd like to see it return
back into the new day opening
Gap not just take the
Gap
from yesterday's
settlement to today's opening at
9:30 so we're in the beginning portion
of opening
range which is the 30 minutes between
9:30 and 10: a.m. here's your near the
opening
Gap so you want to screenshot
that that volume IM balance right
here note
that because if it's going to pop the
liquidity above here it's reasonable to
anticipate it trading up into that
little volume in Balance there that's
the one minute inefficiency that's just
above that shortterm high
but you want to screenshot that as I was
mentioned the
uh the wick
here consequent encouragement of that is
this see I hit that
there and then we didn't even touch the
upper quadrant there so it's likely this
s is going in there now this would have
been like
say post
[Music]
950 if we were in the macro time and it
had done that then i' would been like
okay it should have no problem just
running directionally right into that I
want to
see would you ever hear me say that I
want to see that is not bias that's
providing a framework for Caleb when he
watches the recordings because he has
the actual documentation of me saying it
over the live TR uh live chart and
when he's watching these recordings he
has the benefit of not having to have
realtime data he's watching it as it
happens so he's looking at a 15-second
chart which is what most of you I'm
watching probably don't even look at or
maybe you don't have the the resources
to be able to do
it we have a 3se second
delay on U latency here so whatever I
say here you receive it 3 seconds later
so having the uh this Gap right here
so a buy side Bound sell sign efficiency
it's overlaid with a new day opening
Gap but you want to screenshot that
uh that Wick right here and how it
behaved and took us up into that that is
a very very easy bread and butter type
setup so for someone that doesn't have a
model for someone that's looking for
something like what does the pattern
look like well there's lots of patterns
there's lots of ways to engage it but
framing in the context that it needs to
run to a new day opening Gap or a new
week opening Gap that is my
son's model like that that's his
draw and it has to have
hopefully
something like a relative equal High
either just below
it or right at it so it's in close prox
Sy me ideally the actual liquidity if if
he's bullish he's going to be looking
for something that has relative equal
highs below a new day new day opening
Gap or a new week opening Gap that he's
going to be targeting as the draw or
like the magnet draw on
liquidity and then vice versa if he's
going to go short he'd be looking for
relative equal lows that are just above
a old new day opening gap or the present
new day opening gap or new week opening
Gap and they can be old as far as you
know like I said five weeks back for new
week opening gaps and five days worth
for a new day opening gaps and that's
the criteria I'm giving to him not to
say that you won't find more setups
because you're looking it a little bit
older than five weeks ago new week
opening gaps just they they don't they
don't get stale if you will as long as
you're using it in the right context for
uh sentiment reasons it's
fine they will still show you reactions
and price that you're able to take
trades
on so I want to see it reach up into
that daily volume imbalance and I'll
take your attention to that
now I have it divided into its
quadrants I'll show you in a moment what
this is again for those that don't
remember or don't take notes or don't
have um the luxury of having been in
the previous live streams so if you're
watching it live is the first one uh
this area here we talked about this last
Tuesday before the end of the stream on
August 13 2024's live stream I took
everyone's attention to where the real
bias is on a higher time frame and where
that means the market will draw
to taking everything out of the
confusion of is it a buy or is it a sell
it was told to you last Tuesday the
market was going to go up to these
levels and we traded into it in
yesterday's session at the last hour of
day
session and then in the London
session we
had the market trade up into a here
it's the low of the daily volume
imbalance that took your attention to
last Tuesday and we kind of talked about
it yesterday as well traded all the way
up to the upper quadrant look at the
bodies okay this is a one minute chart
look at that it closes right on the
upper quadrant and leaves this portion
open so this to me is where I want to
hold my attention I'm not trying to pick
the top and I've been maintaining that
since we started this whole series in
2024 when we started live streaming
started teaching the higher time frame
has been called higher we haven't
deviated from that and go back and
listen to the recordings and you'll see
that's the truth but here we traded up
into the upper quadrant then we had it
give us a reversal trading back down
into the low there's liquidity resting
below that and you can see that we
traded there and all the way down to
today's new day opening Gap
and this was formed
yesterday on this
basis scroll over
[Music]
here that's this reference point here so
where we settled at 5:00 on Monday
August 19th 2024 and then we started
trading at 6 o'clock so that's your new
day opening gap
for
Tuesday that's why it's labeled the 20th
because this Gap is referencing the next
trading day so you carry it Forward
into price action that you watch
unfold and then there's that
turn at
[Music]
London gyrating around towards the
low use the
lowest support rallies up hammers it
perfectly
starts to sell off Works lower and then
right down into look at the bodies see
if the bodies are showing the Wicks are
allowed to do the damage but this is
telling you that it's
it's using the new day opening Gap as I
teach it anytime if that Gap would have
been there soon as it filled it
everybody else would have completely
disregarded it tell it's out then throw
the baby out with the bath water and
that's that's flawed
logic okay and and this is the high of
that daily cell sign of balance by sign
efficiency on the daily chart and we
want to see it try to get up
into here me take your attention back to
it
here above this high and try to get
into this portion that's the part that's
still remaining open right here so that
would look like this you want to
have that
high to here
you want to have that on your chart and
we'll set that up as something obnoxious
you like yellow that way it's going to
stand
out and we're going to extend it to the
right and we'll divide it in half just
because I want to have that information
on top of it
so here's the low that daily volume
imbalance
[Music]
watch this Gap in here with the volume
of balance between these two candles
right there watch
that so we have the low of the daily
volume imbalance we talked about
yesterday and mentioned in advance on
the 13th of August here's a lower
quadrant midpoint which is consequent
encroachment in the Shaded yellow area
that's the portion that has not been
traded to so we went as high as the
upper quadrant here but all of the
yellow area in my mind I want to see
does it have the ability to try to reach
for that I'm not saying it has to go
right there right now technicals have to
support the idea but my initial interest
today with really nothing to speak of
for the economic calendar that's all
exciting but it changes tomorrow um this
is what my interest is for the remainder
of the week I want to see do we trade
into this area here so with that I want
to go over real quick to the Daily and
remind you where this is
this little segment of price action
right in here we talked about
[Music]
this right
here elongate
[Music]
that that little segment of price action
right there
that is the volume of balance and that
was mentioned to you on the 13th of
August in Tuesday's last portion of the
the live stream and we divide it using
this as the low which is the open of
that candle and the close on this candle
so we're marking the difference between
that close to the open of the next one
there is a wick let me move it over here
so you can see this Wick goes as low as
that right there but we're not
interested in the wick here we're
looking at the difference between the
bodies here and here because there is no
connection between this candle and that
candle with the body so the only
bridging or overlapping of this Daily's
candle to this Daily's candle is the
connection of the wick and because I
teach you to look at the Wicks as a gap
look at it through the lens of that so
if that's the case then we want to take
that Gap
and break it into quadrants
and wats the midpoint which is
consequent encouragement not it's not
mean threshold mean threshold is a
middle of a order
block
the equilibrium price point or midpoint
of a gap whether it's a bid imbalance
cell sign efficiency or a cellid
imbalance bid efficiency either or if
it's up closed fair value Gap or down
closed fair value Gap the midpoint of
that is consequent cing and Wicks are
classified the same way I internalize
them as the same thing as a
gap just like I teach that a opening
range Gap you you would build that with
a quadrant to break him up over quarters
which is not quarters Theory okay so
once you have these levels divided like
that you can anticipate what's still
available and what this is saying is
this little portion of the this close to
that level right there that's what's
being highlighted over on the right hand
side so that is the unfilled portion of
all of this move the blue line which you
see over
here this blue line there watch when I
highlight
it the coordinates for that is
19868 and
[Music]
A4 that's this candle's low see look at
this value right here up here um the
left chart right there underneath my or
above my
cursor that is the 19868 and the quarter
level so that is the
high of this Cy down to this candle's
high so between this candle's high and
that candle's low this is a sells side
imbalance by sign of efficiency we would
expect in the future the market would
reach up in to that level and tap it and
we're working that level now so I want
to see do we have the ability to grind
into this more and explore this area
which has not been able to book any
price above the upper quadrant of
this daily volume in Balance
okay so that's the business there we're
again watch ing on a one minute
chart
there and this was the the opening range
Gap that means it's the difference at
the regular trading
[Music]
hours so it'
be here on that candle's close to that
candles open just eyeballing it when I
drop that on there that's what you're
measuring and then we went above it here
and we went back down into it as support
now we're rallying up so we want to see
it eat into all of this we want to see
does it have the strength and the
ability with speed to be able to get to
the lowest quadrant which is this level
here of this daily volume of balance
with the expectation that we're focusing
on whether or not the market has an
interest to get up to here we know that
there's an inefficiency still there
because it's only delivered price down
but we've gone as far as this level here
to the upside so there's inefficiency
between this level here on the left to
here with Buy side delivery meaning all
we're saying in simplest terms is we're
expecting the market to go up in here
and just offer price at these levels and
whether it stays there or continues it's
it's not important at this moment for
Caleb it's just that that's what we
would anticipate as a realistic it's
practical that it's gone as far as here
so if it's bullish it's reasonable to
anticipate it reaching into here it need
not do it today
[Music]
watch this one in here
now if you look at it over here on the
one minute chart we had this PA B Gap
there and I like the fact that this Gap
occurs and forms on the 15-second chart
I see it forming on the upper
half of this Gap so let me let me draw
it out
[Music]
here and we'll do it just a little bit
different
color um like
that okay so it's a little bit of a cont
it's probably not the best color Cho is
it now
this fair value Gap here if it's going
to be the ideal scenario it would be
being sensitive at the high end of it in
other words half of it the best
formations or continuation would occur
for Price only going into the upper half
not digging down into the bottom half
but can it do it yes you go back and
listen to the lectures it's completely
permissible it's not something that
it doesn't change the underlying
directional wise it doesn't change the
directional uh impact of using these
things this means that it's better for
it to leave it open if it leaves it open
it's indicating that it's extremely
strong it should keep pressing higher
but if it's going to go down and and
completely overlap that little gap on
the one minute
chart how far can it color Outside the
Lines if it's going to over shoot this
how far can it go past if it's just
going to be a
wick what keeps it still gerine to the
idea that we would stick to reaching for
this lower quadrant and measure does it
have the ability to get there number one
two how fast does it get there and once
it get to once it gets to that level how
does it behave does it hit it and fall
short of going any further or does it go
through it like a hot knife through
butter and just slice right on through
and reach for the midpoint which is this
level
here you're weighing out all these PD
arrays if it's going to overshoot this
fair value
Gap this Wick right
here we were talking about this
yesterday over live price
action I'm going to have to turn that
air commissioner off this I know it's
probably annoying that's annoying me so
we hit the upper
quadrant but it hit the consequent
approach on that Wick see it it's
perfect it's perfect delivery perfect
so if you have that and you run up to
this quadrant here you want to
screenshot that don't use my charts do
it with your
own and you're seeing the measurement of
real order flow no depth of Market
needed no ladders no level two data no
nothing just watching price action it
should behave in a manner that supports
price repricing down to inefficiency
using the hourly I'm sorry not the
hourly one hour Chart good grief the one
minute chart to the left
and carrying it over to the 15c here so
what I'm doing is I'm constantly
balancing the effects of where price
should gravitate to where it should
support price where it where it's
allowed to do the damage if you look at
what was shown here I was outlining the
fair value
Gap with the focus on that lower
quadrant level right there so we were
looking initially at this Gap here I
told you watch that we went outside a
little bit and where to go just to the
low of the new day opening Gap and
stopped dead end tracks and rallied up
spent a little bit of time and the
bodies were telling you what it wants to
do it's going to want to Rally it
rallies it gives you displacement with
the one minute chart here so there Gap
so that Gap is real in this range from
that candle's high and that candle's low
but over here on the 15 second I took
your attention there look where the
bodies of the candles in the 15sec stop
and stay inside of it respects its fair
value Gap that's in the blue you see
that look at that look at that body
right there the wick is only afforded to
go as low as what this one minute fair
value Gap does and is low as the
consequent approachment of this Wick why
am I picking this Wick because it's the
highest going to the left it went above
this
one and by having that back on the chart
again there's the trade two consequent
forment right here so now we want to see
does it have the ability to get to the
upper
quadrant so if I measure this again from
here to here that's perfect delivery so
when you're watching things and you're
looking for price to if it's if it's
going to go up you want to be measuring
as I'm teaching you here this is the
price delivery Continuum Theory it's my
way of reading real order flow you don't
need to know how many contracts are
floating above or below because you you
don't know if those orders are going to
stay in the marketplace they can be
pulled okay it's called
spoofing you're not going to spoof your
open high low and close of the intervals
of the chart you're watching okay that
doesn't actually that's a Markt Market
book of where price has actually
traded these levels that are above or
below ladders and depth of Market on the
Dom they are not traded
to they're this flashing there and until
price goes there and engages it then you
see the actual volume that was booked at
that time using time and sales again
you're looking at what already happened
what I'm doing is I'm getting a
measurement do we see things in price
action that are going to support the
algorithm repricing back to these
reference points like we have here and
then does it deliver higher yes does it
go to
the level here which is the lowest
quadrant yes and then once we got there
did it show a willingness to want to
trade to consequent cachent which is
this next level here it trades right to
it now we went to this objective as we
hit that you want to screenshot all of
this you want to have all of these
reference points shown because this is
exactly what kaleb's model is going to
look like for him all you're doing is
framing okay the market has proven it
gapped
lower we gapped lower then we overtook
that Gap we traded above used a new day
opening Gap here touched the high of the
opening Gap
here rallied and then we got this Fair V
Gap given to you on a 15sec chart but
allowing you to use as much as a wick
coming down to fill in this one minute
fair value Gap but using the Wicks as
I've been teaching you the consequent
encroachment of that Wick here is
exactly that low so there's no reason
for you to be panicked was there any
sense of urgency in my voice did I hear
did you hear me kind of shaking was I
nervous about it not potentially doing
what I've outlined no it's the same
boring stuff all you're doing is
relaxing and looking for the things that
I'm teaching you exist in price because
the market is algorithmic it's going to
follow the scripts it has absolutely no
bearing on how many contracts are bought
or sold that's it's not has nothing to
do with it so when you relax and start
looking at what price is showing you is
it indicative of reaching to the next
objective and the beginning Caleb it's
not important for you to know those
straight shot that takes you up up in
here all we're saying is is there's a
big magnet okay there's a big magnet
that is lowering price up to these
levels because there's an
inefficiency it's lacking up delivery
buy side delivery movement up into these
levels it's not important for you to
pick the determination of it getting to
just a halfway point it needs to just
touch the low of it and then you watch
and see does it have the ability to
aggressively run into the halfway point
of the opening range that's still there
not opening range that were trading like
9:31 I shouldn't have said that as I
said I realize shouldn't use those terms
but this portion is still open and
exposed to
inefficiency because it's lacking
candlesticks offering price as it passes
through the low end of that yellow
shaded area to the high end of
it so all we're doing is uh it think of
it like this the algorithm is likely to
cast price into this area to offer
traders to distribute long positions or
enter short
positions it's it's not at a point of
knowing how many contracts are floating
in that area so like a thing like a book
map or something similar to that effect
is really not all that important because
inside of
inefficiencies the element of delivery
of price is to say it's been given the
opportunity to trade there it matters
not how much volume is expected to be
filled with lofty levels of okay there's
a bookmap reading or something you know
to that effect I'm not beating up on
bookmap like I said before I I
personally don't need it students that
understand what I'm teaching don't need
it if it would have been available to me
when I first started it would have
helped me it would have given me a
visual representation of what orders are
sitting where it did it didn't make
sense to me when I was first learning
and just like it probably doesn't make
sense for you
but I don't have those types of tools
while I'm talking to you I I don't look
at that stuff I just look at where price
has shown in efficiencies as I as I've
been doing in the live streams I've been
showing you where the liquidity is the
buy side the sell side and I'm showing
you how to use these higher time frame
reference points as draws on liquidity
to complement things that would
otherwise been factored into the market
place and Analysis Concepts that my son
would be expected to
use so
by seeing these points of
reference and watching how price
delivers over a one minute chart and a
15sec
chart when you screenshot this and it
hits these levels here and then because
we took this High out here I mentioned
this in previous live streams every time
you're holding an idea that it wants to
go higher and and you're trading on that
idea if you have a short-term high and
it reaches to a level and it goes above
it you need to be taking some kind of a
partial above that because if you don't
do that you're going to miss the
opportunity of Distributing at premium
level prices and we went all the way
back down into that fair value Gap here
on the 15sec chart and the one minute
chart is it
done is it done all the way down here is
it completely said I'm not going to go
any higher you wait and
see you have to submit yourself and
watch it does it is it done you don't
know and you have to Lo that
time when it created this short-term
High here and trades above it if you
have the ability to take partials off
you take a partial dare but why would
you want to do that ICT if you think
it's going to go up here what you think
while you're learning and why my son's
learning doesn't equate to what the
Market's going to do you're discovering
and and gleaning experience as you watch
and study and learn you don't have
everything at your disposal in terms of
experence when you first start using the
information if you did you wouldn't be
watching my live streams would you you'd
just be out there doing your own thing
so it's important to know how to run
down equity which is what I call it when
we're in a buy program and we're looking
for targets to be reached anytime it
creates a shortterm high and then breaks
above that short-term high and you have
the ability to take a partial you
should because it will reward you for
holding on to the trade it's a logical
level to take a partial every single
partial listen this is a really
important fact go into your notes okay
when it comes to taking partials or
taking partial profits when you're long
every short-term
high that is
broken as I'm indicating
here that is a candidate for you to take
a
partial it's better for you to take a
partial than it is for you to move your
stop loss it's real important for you
not to try to move your stop loss in the
early stages of your development because
you think it's prod Ive for you to lock
in profit but the only thing you're
actually doing is is you're increasing
the level of uncertainty anxiety and
you're going to be worrying about your
stop- loss getting hit versus watching
and studying whether the price is still
giving you the indications that it's
going to still pan out to what you
thought was likely to occur before you
put the trade on in the
beginning I just realized I didn't do a
sound check
let me uh let me see if I can pull up my
I don't have my headphones with me I'm
really unorganized this morning but
that's
okay that's
okay let's see
here I got a lot of comments uh from the
post I put on I just want to hear
something real quick
audio
check AUD check okay that's good it's
not bad it's about three 3 4 seconds
delay but the
uh we fell just short of the upper third
quadrant we swept the high here swept
the high here with that high and then
slip back down into the one
minute B and balance cell sign
efficiency that fair value Gap and then
touch that
15sec fair value Gap there right to the
tick and now we're just banging around
between the lower quadrant of that daily
volume balance that shaded area here
it's in pink it goes as high as this and
as low as that so you can
see right away you can see how this is a
whole lot of stuff to manage on a chart
which in my mind it's a lot easier to
manage if you have the levels you the
values itself on a notepad so I'm
constantly referring back to where we
are in reference to these levels and
when I was
younger I used to work with graph paper
and I would have these levels written
out on a piece of graph paper and then
wherever we opened up at I would put a
little like a little do I would draw
like a a DOT representing where the
opening price is and every 15 minutes I
would note where the highest high and
the lowest low in reference to that so
what I was teaching myself was if I can
use the
information while I was
driving okay I'm driving in a suzu uh
cargo Step Van with candy and snacks and
whatever junk food in the back of it
because I was working as a vendor I
would fill these machines up on my job
so I was trying to visualize what the
intraday charts were doing using my quot
Trek which was simply giving me the
numeric value of what the market has
done to today and I would note the
initial highs and initial lows so every
time we made a higher high I would track
that and it would give me a visual
representation though I didn't have a
live chart in front of me because we
didn't have the ability to have that
then but I was getting real-time quotes
so it was allowing me to draw out
whatever Market I was working with with
a piece of graph paper so it gave me a
reference point of okay I know it made
this High here and it made a higher high
and I would write down the rough time
like if it was um
10:15 10:00 11:15 you know 1:00 in the
afternoon something to that effect I
would have a reference point so it was a
very crude way of referencing and
mapping what price has
done and where certain highs were and
where certain lows were and I was seeing
by doing that with the graph paper it
would create these relative equal highs
and relative equal lows and eventually
if I'm long or I'm bullish I would want
to see these things plow through it like
we have these relative equal highs here
but we're having all this consolidation
so I would demand that it wants to reach
up here aggressively and trade into here
not spend a whole lot of time in this
stuff but there's been opportunity here
this morning for you to capture
screenshot where setups were formed
using the Gap closure here trading above
come back down use the Gap as support
because if the opening range gap which
is
this I'm going to put it on the close of
that candle so I'm looking up there
19850 and a
quarter so what's that that price
this opening range gap which again is
the difference between previous day
settlement and where we open at 9:30
that range you want to keep it on your
chart extend it throughout the day
because it will use those levels the
high the low and its quadrant levels
they will be used over and over and over
again every time T price is allowed to
trade through it and back to it they'll
reference it the algorithm will refer
back to those levels again but we want
to see days do these types of things
where if we expect prices to trade
higher we want to see the opening range
Gap if it gaps lower that's the entice
traders to be short then you see the Gap
fill which is generally what you expect
to see at the very minimum highest
probability is if you get a gap lower
opening Mark out 50% of that because if
you can capture that as a run on price
you can do a lot of bread butter trade
setups like that and and have no bias
you don't even need to be right on the
bias because there's such a high degree
of the market returning back to the
middle of the Gap whatever the gap
opening is at 930 is opening bell if
there's a gap lower in relative terms to
what we saw in the previous day
settlement which is this candle here at
4:15 regular trading hours look down
here and up lower right hand corner you
see
that if there's a large gap down like
that Mark out the midpoint use a
Fibonacci to Simply do that and then
wherever that midpoint is where we
opened it's going to gravitate to that
even if goes lower it's going to go back
to that midpoint I promise you that is
one of the shest things in trading it's
such a strong strong TR it's really
strong it gives you an opportunity to be
a part of a a setup that is many
times ignored because everybody knows
about gaps okay yes and they want to see
the Gap close well there are times when
the Gap doesn't close and it only goes
back to halfway and then it just rockets
in the direction of the gap and it only
gives you the opportunity to see
fluctuations to half of the Gap being
filled in but apart from that if the Gap
can close and we're bullish we want to
see it leave the Gap like it does here
and then come back down look at the
bodies look at that stop and rate the
high of the opening range Gap so that
opening range of that Gap it's stopping
the Wicks are going inside this body
opens and then we send it back above
what's in close proximity to the high
end of that opening range Gap it's the
new day opening gap for today that was
formed between the difference at
settlement at 5:00 p.m. yesterday
evening New York local time to the
opening again at 6 p.m. so 1
hour pause in trading we annotate
that well we're working off that this
Candlestick comes right down to the low
of it and sends us again higher we were
using the reference points on the one
minute chart
here came down we saw the wick come down
to the consequent correction of this
highest Wick here midpoint of that so if
it's going to overshoot this fair value
Gap you can determine just how far it
can do that if you watched what I was
doing in recorded sessions or when I was
doing uh the Twitter when I was calling
out the moves one minute one minute
candle at a time and I'd say okay what
you just saw was a mohawk where it just
goes just outside the fair value Gap
that's permissible price action but when
it's trading down like that and it's a
bearish candle it's scary because you're
thinking oh it's going to fail but you
have to have a framework and measuring
where is
it reasonable it can still move in the
direction you think the trade's going to
go but how do you hold on to it ICT how
do you not get scared or or or shaken
out of it well it needs to occur with
things like this where we can measure it
and so by having these Wicks or if there
was a a larger inefficiency that I want
to trade down into that's what makes me
confident when I'm I'm saying this is
going to be a mohawk okay and I've done
it live I've done it live with my
private students I've done it live over
Twitter spaces calling every individual
Candlestick but when we start seeing
these things and it starts promoting
higher prices we each time measure what
the lower time frame like we're using
the 15sec chart here all of this in here
reaching up to lower quadrant midpoint
we rally a little bit but then we have
these little tiny little fleeting
attempts to try to get up to where we're
aiming for and then we slip
lower cell side cell side went down we
crossed back over top the new day
opening Gap we're inside of that opening
range Gap again I want to put the
quadrants on this so we can see what
we're looking at in that
perspective so there's the quadrant
inside that opening range Gap I'm going
to take
this F got off because it's a whole lot
of stuff going on right now and I'll
I'll make reference to it should we need
to see it
again but you want to have these levels
on your on your
chart while you're screen capturing and
and
logging so here's the 15sec time on the
right hand side and the one minute chart
over here do we come back out of the
Shaded area here in gray which is the
opening range
Gap and if we do does it react off the
new de opening Gap in here so this is
this is the next draw if it wants to
retrace we have a cells balance B
efficiency
here which is overlapping with a new de
opening Gap
remember we're closing the session at
10:30 I mentioned this yesterday because
I want the sessions to be smaller so
that way my son can digest them they're
too much they're too there's too many
too many hours in each one each each
night when he's done working he only has
so much time because he he does 12 hour
shifts some of you're like thank you
[Laughter]
weak
sauce come on ICT do eight hour
sessions so we have low of day
liquidity resting rate below
here and then inside that we
have all these little pockets of
inefficiency and relative equal lows
right here
so have a little bit of cell side there
after we had that big pump up in the
last 15 minutes or so of the day session
yesterday we gap down pumped it up one
more
[Music]
time that inefficiency that's remaining
above here that has been placed on the
back burner for right now and we're
studying how we're behaving inside of
that opening range from yesterday's
previous day settlement at 4:15 Eastern
Standard Time and then we have the
opening price today at the opening B at
930 we rallied up we worked at top of
that opening range Gap here and touched
what level the new day opening Gap low
and now we want to see it work below
this low here in probe and see what any
interest at all below that after that
sell size engaged
now if you look at what we were
outlining over here and how we're
running up to the low the lower quadrant
and then reaching up to this level here
all of this is distribution around the
target we are looking for which is
midpoint of the volume bounce on the
daily chart which is that low to that
high then it slipped lower by having
partials taken off here it doesn't
matter if it does this because Caleb
would have already distributed his long
position and he would have had booked
profit up here at the premium levels
near the highs and when it's down here
like this it's very very comforting to
know that even if you're wrong about
where you think it's going to get to
ultimately by Distributing your your
position as I'm teaching with running
down equity and my students know this is
not just form fitted for the sake of the
live stream I actually taught this in
mentorship that uh that element we
already tapped that low we want to see a
little bit of expansion in here see if
it has any interest to dig down in make
an attempt to get down below yesterday's
afternoon
session rally
here the uh the trade idea for my son
his his trade would be completed soon as
it hit the consequent encouragement
level
and then he'd have to watch and observe
does it go there that's the that's the
the graduated uh examp of going in
having a model reaching for a Target but
not requiring that Target to be hit to
be finding profitable exits for your
trades that's a huge Paradigm Shift when
you can take your time and spend it more
economically so that way you're not in a
state of panic or fear while you're
engaging price which makes it it makes
learning hell when it's like that but
when it's disarming and relaxed like
we're doing here nobody's pressing any
buttons nobody's saying it has to do
this nobody says it has to do that it
frees you up to watch what price is
doing so that way you can recognize
certain aspects of pattern and pattern
formation so that way it leads to
pattern recognition because repetition
will provide the
recognition before you can recognize it
you got to see it multiple times that
means you have to expose yourself to
what watching price action and it has to
meander around without you making or
losing anything and by doing that it
teaches you to key up on the things that
make sense to you what your eye sees as
an opportunity isn't going to be the
same thing that I see that other people
watching the same live stream they're
not going to see the same thing either
it doesn't mean that you're going to
have an unprofitable model we are not
all going to have the collective opinion
about watching price action
we might think it's bullish or bearish
generally for the day uh but I have
traders that are going long and short in
the same day and they're both profitable
and they're trading at different times
of the day using different models and
that it sounds like it shouldn't be
possible like everybody should be doing
the same thing and that's not true
because I've given the tools for you to
make this your own you go in you plug in
what you're trying to trade on for some
of you for
example let's cover real quick as prices
Cho
in I mentioned how when we opened down
here and we had the Gap soon as you see
where we settled yesterday and you're
watching real time price action before I
actually got on the live stream you knew
we were going to open lower than that so
we're going to have a gap lower opening
so you wait for the first tick soon as
you drop your FIB on that you know that
834 is midpoint that's the consequent
crment of the opening range Gap so you
could look for a retracement right in a
and I've done many times this very trade
where I don't even look for anything
except for as soon as it starts opening
and trading if I have range between
where it's at when I first see it and
where the midpoint of the Gap is I'll go
long right there most of you would be
scared shitless to do that but I know
that this math that is always likely to
see that midpoint G traded to because if
it's going to go lower if if it's going
to go lower it's going to do this
halfway then drop or halfway a little
bit more failure to close in then drop
but if it's going to be bullish and
we're expecting things up here as
outlined yesterday and last Tuesday then
means that we're anticipating the
likelihood that it want to go above the
Gap and then where we see that then it
touches it here so a gap is going to be
used as a future point of reference for
the algo to start keying off of and
start spooling so if it's bullish higher
time frame and we're expecting higher
prices and we have something up here
that needs to be Revisited in a perfect
world for
efficiency then this is going to
actually just like an old fair value Gap
it's going to find support there and do
we see signatures that support that yes
the bodies are saying I'm not interested
in going back down in there even though
we had Wix doing it then we see price
displace again and it supports around
what the new day opening Gap and you see
that element of price delivery over
here you enter
around displacement dropping back down
perfect delivery to New Day opening Gap
rally fair value Gap boom
that right there is institutional order
entry
drill here's your fair B Gap all you got
to do is use that Candlestick plus one
tick you would be filled there rallies
this is the high Watermark of the daily
sell sign and balance byy sign
efficiency where the the the Gap is on
the daily chart that was your first
objective before you get to the volume
inbalance so which is the that pink
shaded area here then we red up hit that
low dug in dug in back down
in order block there rallies almost
immediate rebounds on that Candlestick I
would have been I would have been
expecting that if I was just watching
price I would have expected that to
happen it didn't deliver there that's
fine the fact that it didn't do it is
that good or bad it's good that means it
left abortion open so what's going to
reach for it that lower quadrant we were
aiming for does it have the ability to
trade there does it do it with speed yes
then if it does and it has those things
if it has speed if it has a real desire
to get there that means then we should
have no problem getting to the midpoint
which is there and what does it do it
trades right to it we have a little bit
of retracement then pump it up one more
time shortterm high after the target's
being reached every Milestone by having
predetermined levels of what you think
is a minor Target minor targets are
initial candidates if it can trade there
and you can afford yourself a partial
you'd be doing it anyway
here if you didn't take a partial here
and it rallies above that short-term
High you better be taking something off
because in your limited experience
you're not going to know when it's going
to do things like this and if you don't
take the uh partial profits you're going
to be seeing a winning trade turn
against you which is the reason why I
preach and teach that taking partials is
a professional mindset it's not someone
that doesn't hold on to their trade it
doesn't mean that you're weak doesn't
mean that you don't have convictions or
you open the trade up with XYZ amount of
risk why would you want to take trade
partials off when you started the tra
[__] when I started trading [__] that
you're trying to make
money you you're trying to make money
you don't know in the beginning of your
development when your trades are on side
you don't know that you only know that
when you get out of the trade and it was
profitable but while you're watching it
you have all these things swirling
around and these dollar menu men ship
people all around the world that try to
give you these little tidbits they think
they're instilling some wisdom in you
and they're really giving you [__]
you have to take partials you have to
because you don't know what you don't
know you don't have the experience and
what matters more being right or
constantly making [__]
money constantly making [__] money
but social media says you have to be
right or it don't it don't matter it's
cap unless you're right you didn't get
to your target who gives a [__] that you
made 17,000 real dollars you didn't get
to your target you suck that's the
mentality that's what that's what the
measurement stick is they have to be
right their thing has to be perfect it
has to go to your targets your logic has
to be you know convincing to the degree
that where you got in where you're
hoping to get out at it has to do that
but what happens if it doesn't what
happens if you're watching price and
you're seeing signs that it's petering
out a little bit it's not finding the
ability to to climb up to that next
level or threshold of
objectives do you close the trade and
panic do you close it and panic here
have you controlled the risk too far by
putting your stop loss below a low like
that where it's asking to get knocked
out so I teach my students and I'm
teaching my children to think about
taking partials before moving your stop-
loss because number one it rewards you
for doing the right things you've held
on to the trade to that point you have a
a profitable partial that means if you
put your stop loss to cover cost at that
point theoretically you don't have any
chance of losing money that's a huge
paradigm shift for someone that's
developing as a Trader you you don't
know what that feels like until you get
there so there's a little bit of a spike
below that so I want to see do we
maintain that or come right back up in
the range between this high and what
we've seen here by taking the liquidity
below there that was a little too
shallow I like that run there that was a
little bit better so if we start losing
some ground Bel here uh we might be
interested in
seeing this area over here because there
a it's a lot of liquidity resting
[Music]
there but you listening to folks say
partials are stupid because when you
first start the trade you take on a
certain measure of risk okay but when I
put a trade on I'm not looking to hold
on to that same measure of risk the
initial stop loss isn't going to be
there as the trade progresses in my
favor like I have protocols that tells
me when I want to move my stop and it
isn't always moving it to a level that
would always stop me out prematurely if
I'm trying to be aggressive about
something and I'm going to be trading
all day that means I'm buying and
selling up down up down all day long I
will be a little bit more aggressive
about moving my stop loss there because
I know that I'm going to be taking
another trade and it may be going
against this trade's direction I'm going
be trading back and forth back and forth
that's a higher form of trading and
that's something that's going to take
you a decade or more to get to where
you're just buying and selling you have
a flexible just you're just trading
price action you're not going to be able
to do that in a couple years okay I
promise you that anybody tells you they
can and they've done it in like six
months and nobody taught them how to do
it but they're using my language they're
using my
vernacular they're [__] but the long
and short of is you want to be able
to graduate and not have to have
everything laid out like I'm only going
to work in one bias but you have to have
a framework or a structure in the
beginning because otherwise how can you
how can you measure your progress but
when you really understand what you're
doing and you understand what price is
doing and you understand how you can be
bias less you simply go out there and
you're trading price based on what time
of day it is and what it's reaching for
then you're literally liquid where
you're just going in you're taking every
possible scenario and weighing out if
that's a trade for you at the moment and
you don't have to take every single one
of them but over time you'll see that
you can be buying and selling making 10
15 20 handles down 10 15 20 handles up
10 15 back and forth back and forth and
you can do 10050 handles 200 Handles in
a day going back and forth and you can
afford to have two or three losing
trades get stopped out go break even
cover some cost lose commission only and
still have you know triple digit handle
runs or triple digit uh Pips in a day
but the the market you're trading has to
have the ability to have that measure of
volatility
and not just be wonky back and forth you
know aimless price delivery where it's
better for you to say h it's not it's
not really doing that it's it's it's a
day for me to take one trade and be done
maybe take one in the morning one in the
afternoon and be done or maybe take one
get the afternoon
reversal some kind of a a a lunchtime
macro and then be done but having
um the flexibility and the freedom to go
in and trade you know without a bias
that's going to be the highest form of
you and your understanding and trading
but I I teach it I'm teaching my
children with the lectures that I put
out for them to at least start there
okay so it is approaching 10:30 I
promised my son and all of you that we
would try to keep these things to a
little bit more manageable time frame um
I like the idea of still getting up here
that may demand an afternoon or tomorrow
uh framework to do that I don't know
what we're going to see in the afteron
right now based on what we're seeing
because it's rather uh quite news day I
am not of I'm not abandoning let's say
it that way I'm not abandoning uh
trading up into here for today I think
that there's a lot of buy side resting
here they set um a lot of folks in
motion that maybe we
topped and the liquidity sitting right
here and I'll just not it so it's on my
chart next time
see each
other this is the buy
side and I outlined today live with you
the
uh the morning
run where the liquidity would go and
what the price delivery continuing
Theory would show what using a one
minute chart how far it can go outside
the realm of a fair value G color
outside the lines with the Wicks and
where the entry models would
be and that
uh that's undeniable you can't you can't
argue that it's been shown to
you make this blue out the we're
done all right so that byy
side everything that was outlined all
through here with the 15sec and one
minute chart uh PD
arrays and where it reached up to the
lower quadrant and the consequent
encroachment
go back and look at your charts and your
examples of when you would expect a
certain level to be with drawal in
liquidity again as a reminder in closing
you do not need that draw on liquidity
to be reached by price that doesn't
equate to success success is measured by
where you can see a beginning point
where price can move from up to that
Terminus and if you can frame a setup
that allows you to have 15 20 handles
then in in my definition that is is a
high probability likelihood that Caleb
can take that
trade so it's not a guarantee you're
going to be profitable in it but it's a
green light that you can take it and all
you do is simply look for inefficiencies
because his model is gaps and he's
looking for
inefficiencies in price action
gravitating and keying off of new day
opening gaps new week opening gaps and
ringing in the higher time frame that's
we were talking about yesterday today uh
it's not just simply intraday charts so
we're looking at elements that are found
on the weekly and daily chart and we'll
be segueing more into that next week
when we looking at how to hold on the
trades better I touched on that today a
little bit just a kind of get your
appetite wet
but Focus right here going into lunch
okay right down here relativ Co and
that's going to be it for today
hopefully you found this insightful and
until talk to you tomorrow L Lord
willing be safe